Michael Franz: Hello everybody this is the second lecture for Week five where we are talking about candidate positioning in congressional races and we're talking about an article by
Michael Franz: A number of a political scientists from it's an older article published in 2001 by Stephen and soul of his soul, the hair. James Snyder and Charles steward.
Michael Franz: These are very well respected political scientists who have been studying these kinds of questions for for a long time and they look backwards to
Michael Franz: The 1996 election. And what I find particularly interesting about this analysis. And what I want to talk to you about today with respect to it is
Michael Franz: It's really about how candidates run in local races and how responsive. They are to the preferences of the voters that they
Michael Franz: Are trying to represent. And that's seemingly straightforward, in the sense that, well, if you were going to run for office, you would
Michael Franz: You would try to perhaps to adopt the positions of the voters if they're conservative, you would be a conservative or you'd be more likely to win in a district that was
Michael Franz: Where you were conservative if they were conservative and seems very natural. But the authors for one, it's, it's hard to know how often that happens.
Michael Franz: We need good estimates of district preferences and of candidate issue positions.
Michael Franz: And that those data aren't always easy to get. And so the authors tackle that in a variety of ways. Looking at the 1996 election. Specifically, and then looking at elections between 1874
Michael Franz: And 1996 inclusive of many different electoral environments. And so I want to talk a little bit about the data they use and the analysis and walk us through some of some of the results. The first thing I'll say, as I click over here just to make sure that I
Michael Franz: Get all the labeling and wording right here is that they they utilize results from a candidate survey that was done in 1996 called the national political awareness test.
Michael Franz: And the national political awareness test comes from Project Vote Smart and Project Vote Smart
Michael Franz: Send surveys out to congressional candidates and asked for their issue positions on a variety of things in 1996 and they've continued to do that.
Michael Franz: Since since the 1990s. It's now called the political courage test and I've linked to the political courage test for 2020 in our week six module. And I just want to show you first that
Michael Franz: So you know where to find it. And we can walk through some of the I should say our week five module and we can walk through
Michael Franz: How to use look up stuff in, in that website. And so here's our week five module. And down here underneath lecture two is
Michael Franz: The political courage test. So that'll open up votes smarts website for us. And there's a name an entry point right here where you can add a candidate name. And so I was just looking up and I'm going to show you some
Michael Franz: Advantages and disadvantages of the political courage test, I'm going to first look up Claudia Claudia Tunney who is running in New York 22 and if I just enter her name.
Michael Franz: It should, it should try to find that candidate and you'll see her listed there. And I'll click on her.
Michael Franz: And then it will ask me to choose a category. And so I'll choose and there's a variety of different folders here that you can look at, but I'll choose positions to find out what
Michael Franz: What she said on the survey and I'll click on that and I'll see down here below that you'll see a red little boxes as Claudia Tony has failed to provide voters.
Michael Franz: With positions on key issues covered by the political courage test. So she didn't fill it out, not everybody does, fill it out. So she's running against Anthony Brindisi. And so I'm going to
Michael Franz: Look up Anthony Brindisi and see where I can find him. There he is. And so I'll click on that and I'll choose the category of positions.
Michael Franz: And He'll show up and you'll see here that he has failed to provide results to the service. Now that may change over the course of the next couple of weeks but unlikely. If they're not, if they haven't filled it out yet.
Michael Franz: They probably won't. And so you'll be on a lock on that you'll have to go to the candidates websites and
Michael Franz: To look at the positions that they espouse just to find out the things that they care about, or the things that they mentioned in their advertising.
Michael Franz: Which are be heavily focused. I'm sure on the issues that they care about, but they don't look up at a couple of different candidates. So here's Steve Chabot who is
Michael Franz: Representing the first district in Ohio and a competitive race. And so another cool thing is you get to see what these candidates look like
Michael Franz: And so I'll click on positions and Congressman Chabot has in fact filled it out.
Michael Franz: So he's provided voters with his views. And so you can see the political courage tasks asked a lot of questions and a lot of different categories.
Michael Franz: And they've provided answers to those categories. So, for example, he has answered the question do you generally support pro life or pro choice legislation, he says.
Michael Franz: pro life on the issue of, let's say, education, the question is, do you support requiring states to adopt federal education standards and he says no.
Michael Franz: On issues of guns, do you generally support gun control legislation. He says, No. And then he says, I think we need to enforce the laws already enacted. And so there's a variety of different
Michael Franz: Issue areas that you can look up and learn about
Michael Franz: Steve shadows positions. Now he's running against Kate Schroeder, so if I look up Kate Schroeder CH AR D, er,
Michael Franz: Hopefully she will be there she is. Kate Schroeder's a challenger. I'm going to choose positions and Kate Schroeder has also filled out the survey. She's pro choice.
Michael Franz: On issue of education. She supports federal education standards on issues of guns. She supports gun control legislation so she's taken different positions, then
Michael Franz: The incumbent is on many of these issues. And so the authors are going to use essentially the similar data from 1996 to estimate the issue positions.
Michael Franz: Of the candidates and all of these races, at least for 1996 and so I wanted to show you that before I jump into the overview of the analysis because that's how they get their sort of
Michael Franz: Issue or any logical sort of position taking that the candidates take and how they can relate that to the views of the district. So let's walk through these results and I'm I have a PowerPoint slide here, which
Michael Franz: I don't think I need to make available because it's playing directly inside this this video, but this is just this serve the topic is on candidate issue positions. Here we are in week five and
Michael Franz: The big questions that animate what they're doing are over here on the right. How to candidates position themselves in campaigns.
Michael Franz: How do they run for office, do they respond to local political contexts in terms of the issue positions they take or two national party positions.
Michael Franz: And they say this on page 137 kind of succinctly, we're most keenly interested in understanding the degree to which local and national interests. You might even say local versus national interests shape the choices voters face and the the sort of analytical
Michael Franz: Baseline here that the authors are using to make their analysis is what we might call the down z and model of candidate issue positions.
Michael Franz: The downs in model the conventional wisdom from the model says that candidates will conform to the district preference and that candidates will
Michael Franz: Been to where the voters are in the district and both candidates from both major parties will have incentives to do that.
Michael Franz: There are three big predictions that come out of that they're all related to each other. And we'll see some evidence of that in the paper.
Michael Franz: The first prediction is that the these are predictions that candidates should converge to the electoral center.
Michael Franz: Now that center might be different across districts. But wherever it is both candidates should converge together on that point. And in many ways, we should see very little differences.
Michael Franz: Between candidates running against each other because both of them should take very similar issue positions that reflect the preferences of the districts voters.
Michael Franz: Similarly, point two says that candidates positions should respond to the preferences of voters, this is related to the first point.
Michael Franz: But it's very specific about whether we should see things move left or move right and, in particular, if a district is conservative.
Michael Franz: The candidates running in that district should be conservative point one says they should both be conservative. Point two says that if the district is to the left or to the right, and she see candidates moving in either direction.
Michael Franz: Another way to say this is that the center can change across districts, depending on the preferences of voters in that district. And the third
Michael Franz: prediction is that candidates should gain votes by doing this moderation, you might call it by moving to the center. Now, the district is very conservative moving to that conservative center is not
Michael Franz: Is not moderation, right, if both candidates are converging upon a center that's far to the right. But the point here should be that the difference between the two candidates when it's narrow when it's smaller.
Michael Franz: That's suggesting both candidates are moving together to where the center is and voter the candidates who do that should gain boats, because there are more voters in the middle of wherever the distribution is in that district.
Michael Franz: And so these are the major predictions from the downs here model. Now, the thing that comes out of this is a question where do the political parties fit in this story.
Michael Franz: And we're familiar with the different electoral phases that showed up in chapter two of the textbook.
Michael Franz: And in this particular story, the parties don't fit in this down z and model. This is a very highly candidate centered model candidates make decisions.
Michael Franz: entirely based on the preferences of the district they do run as democrats and they do run as Republicans. So there's nothing. It's not as if parties are
Michael Franz: Absent from the story here, but they don't play much of a role in the downs and predictions. In other words, the parties are basically letting their members do whatever they have to do to win office.
Michael Franz: In different constituencies, but the authors don't know if that's true. In fact, they want to test the predictions of the downs in model.
Michael Franz: And they want us to consider the role that party politics plays in the positions that that candidates take in particular the role that national parties play in drawing candidates.
Michael Franz: To the left or to the right, depending on, depending on the party and a question of whether or not downs and the downs you model underestimates the power of the National Party and pulling candidates to the left or to the right.
Michael Franz: Now here's the data that they use. They use 1996 Project Vote Smart data today, as I mentioned, it's called the political courage test.
Michael Franz: And they take from the 1996 results. All of the issue positions of the candidates and they use those issue positions on specific issues to scale all the candidates on a unit dimensional space on a left to right ideological scale.
Michael Franz: Zero is
Michael Franz: The most liberal one is the most conservative on this scale. And so they use, you know, somewhat complicated statistical
Michael Franz: Scaling procedures to take all the different issue positions that the candidates take and kind of summarize that into a score that ranges from zero to one with zero being a liberal and one being a very, very
Michael Franz: Big conservative or a strong conservative and today we still see them for Project food smarts been doing this for for over 25 years
Michael Franz: And they've changed the branding to the political courage test today.
Michael Franz: They also want to look however beyond 1996 and they want to look at some historical data and they look at elections between 1874 in 1996. Now, one of the problems.
Michael Franz: In being able to look backwards in time is we didn't have Project Vote Smart in 1885 or 1897 or something like that. We didn't have though the, the ability to take
Michael Franz: The candidates issue positions during the campaign. We do have incumbent incumbents voting records in Congress.
Michael Franz: And there are many scholars that have taken those voting records on issues and use those voting positions to just like above scale incumbents on a unit dimensional illogical space.
Michael Franz: And so we have all incumbents roll call records to give us the analogous scale that they use for 1996 so we know where all incumbents are liberal to conservative scale, but we don't know where challengers are
Michael Franz: If they don't have voting records. And so the authors do something kind of clever and what they do is they say, well, we're losing challengers
Michael Franz: We don't have any roll call data from Congress because they lost. So we don't know where their issue positions are but some challenges when
Michael Franz: And when some challenges when they go to Congress and they get a voting record. And so let's take the first time incumbents and their voting record.
Michael Franz: And assume that they're voting behavior in their first Congress is a good reflection of their ideology.
Michael Franz: And that their ideology probably didn't change much from when they won election that first election, just a few years before. And so we'll take their early roll call behavior and we'll use that to be an estimate of the ideological position of when they were a challenger
Michael Franz: And will take the incumbent who lost and will take their role call behavior and theological position right before they lost and use that as a pretty good estimate of where they were when they lost ideologically
Michael Franz: And so they can look at races with challengers one and have an ideological score for the Challenger and an ecological score for the incumbent all based off the roll call records of those members, either before or after the campaign.
Michael Franz: Now, this leaves out the losers. But they say, on page 140 kind of very convincingly that when challenges when those are very competitive races. And so those are probably the places where down scenes model would play out the most strongly
Michael Franz: Namely, very far ideologically to the left candidate challenging candidates would likely lose if the district was very red and very conservative candidates would like challenging candidates would likely lose if the district was very
Michael Franz: Liberal and so I'm looking at competitive races. Those are the races that challenges. Usually when
Michael Franz: Is is probably evidence the strongest evidence to find evidence for the downs and model. And so if they don't find evidence for the downs in model.
Michael Franz: In these races, they probably won't find them in other races if they had challenger ideological scores for the losers.
Michael Franz: That's pretty persuasive to me and says that this is a tough case for their analysis. And so we can accept their data.
Michael Franz: Now, we should also say that since they publish this in 2001 a lot of work has gone into estimating ideological scores for challengers that doesn't rely on a roll call data or even project votes. Mark data. And so we do now have estimates of challenge radiology I'm
Michael Franz: Using other sources of data that I won't get into now but allow us to imagine doing this kind of work, this kind of analysis.
Michael Franz: And replicating this study for many more recent campaigns. If we wanted to do it. And so, you know, there's been a lot of advancements in measurement since 2001
Michael Franz: That would make this work easily extendable into recent elections. Now they need to measure voter preferences and this is tough to because voters have very different preferences.
Michael Franz: And also across issues. And so we can ask voters across all these districts, how they would how they stand on abortion or how they stand on
Michael Franz: The environment or gun control. And so they use a proxy measure for the district's issue preferences by
Michael Franz: Taking the Republican Presidential percent of the vote in the district as a measure of the district's ideological position.
Michael Franz: And so in 1996 if Bob Dole did really well in a congressional district that would be evidence that the district was more conservative
Michael Franz: And or had more conservative voters and if Bill Clinton did really well in that district that would be evidence that it was a liberal leaning district. And so they use
Michael Franz: Both share for them in the presidential election as a proxy for voter preferences issue preferences, which may or may not be something that you think is
Michael Franz: All that good a decision, but essentially is is using PPI scores, which we know something about to give us an understanding of the district's lean and
Michael Franz: You know, it's probably as good as we're going to get in this particular case, since we can't measure any ology at the voter level. So finally, as we can for candidates, because the number of candidates is a lot less than the number of owners and so it be much harder to do that.
Michael Franz: But that's their measure and then they have election outcomes which is easy to find in a generally straightforward measure
Michael Franz: And so then they have a bunch of results, and I want to talk us through some of the results and relate them to the predictions on the downs in model.
Michael Franz: So over here on the right, in red is a recap of the three main predictions. And so I'm going to jump forward to some figures and then it'll jump back to this page and sort of take stock of
Michael Franz: These findings in relation to the predictions and so their first figure which is this figure right here candidate positioning in 1996 by district conservative ism.
Michael Franz: Is a way to test what I think is point two on the downswing and model. And remember, point two, or that candidates positions should respond to the preferences of voters, if a district is conservative.
Michael Franz: The candidates should be more conservative and that's generally what we find each of these. These are ours is a candidate.
Michael Franz: In 1996 on the x axis is the percentage of the vote that the GOP candidate in a bob dole in this case in the presidential election got in 1996
Michael Franz: And so in some districts. He did really well in some districts. He didn't do very well. And then on the Y axis is the candidates position as scaled from the Project Vote Smart data.
Michael Franz: And so you can see here that as the district becomes more conservative as Bob told us better than the district.
Michael Franz: Congressional candidates become more conservative or are more conservative. Even the even the Democrats, the DS. You see the line fitted line for Democrats and Republicans is positive, suggesting that the democratic issue positions are more rightward in districts that
Michael Franz: Bob Dole did better in. And so to me, that would be evidence of point two, and the downs, the model that candidates positions respond to the preferences of voters and many of you might see this
Michael Franz: In your own districts where the democrat in a PV i r plus eight district or something is actually espousing some pretty conservative views.
Michael Franz: And that's because if the district is conservative, you know they're they're responding, they're more favorable to voters if they themselves are conservative and so there's there's some evidence there of
Michael Franz: Of point two, and the downs in model but Figure two looks at the Ds and the RS against each other. And you can see in this case that the democrats are always
Michael Franz: more liberal than the Republicans. They're always lower on the Y axis than Republicans are. And so if you just look at the candidates who are running against each other, which is inferior to
Michael Franz: The Democratic candidate, the Democratic candidates positions on the X axis, the Republican candidates position is on the Y axis and the the
Michael Franz: The 45 degree line here would be places where
Michael Franz: If the points fell on the line, the Democratic position would equal the Republican candidates ideological position, but that never really happens, except for some very rare cases. In fact, in almost all the cases from 1996
Michael Franz: Republicans are more conservative than democrats in the head to head matchups in these races.
Michael Franz: That is not the prediction of the downs in model. So figure to find some no convergence, which is very little evidence fact no evidence really 4.1 that the candidates should converge. The electoral center.
Michael Franz: They are responding to the district lean as we see in Figure one but they're not converging to the same point, which is the first prediction of the downs in
Michael Franz: Model. And so that's very I think interesting evidence here that voters are given distinct choices in campaigns. They're not given very similar
Michael Franz: Choices that are sort of differences of degree Democrats and Republicans might differ, you know, might might establishes some differences between each other. If the downs. The model we're right
Michael Franz: On the basis of very small issues or maybe on personality characteristics here. We're seeing that there's usually almost always a Liberal candidate running against a conservative candidate and that is not what downs Ian's model expects
Michael Franz: Now there's figure three. So I hope that is, you know, some interesting sort of ways to evaluate the downs and model.
Michael Franz: Now figure three looks at the gap between the candidates. So this one is about the district's, you know, sort of position relative to the candidates position. This is about the candidates position to each other.
Michael Franz: But what about the gap between the candidates. What about the difference between the candidates. Take this particular instance, here's a candidate. That's about
Michael Franz: point seven five. Let's say on the scale versus at the Republican, which is about a point eight on the scale. And so in this case that the
Michael Franz: In this race. In this case, the candidates issue positions.
Michael Franz: Or at least ideological Lean is not that different from one another, it's, it's the Republican is more conservative and the Democrat, but it's it's kind of close to the line. And so the gap between the two candidates here is not that large
Michael Franz: But over here in this race the candidate is very liberal and the Republican is very conservative and so the gap is huge. And so what
Michael Franz: What expect when is when are the gaps large and when are the gaps small and so figure three uses a results from table to which is a statistical tests, but just sometimes the output of that test is what's most interesting to get us a sense of
Michael Franz: How a district that's much more competitive or balanced leads to
Michael Franz: More or less gaps between the two candidates. And what we see here is, and these are three lines that sort of very other features of the campaign.
Michael Franz: But the gist of it is that all of the lines dip down and then go back up all the line sort of dip down and go back up.
Michael Franz: And there's a lot of variation here, but it does suggest that the gap between the candidates, which is measured on the Y axis is smallest when the district is pretty balanced ideologically
Michael Franz: So when the district is sort of a 5050 district that may be gorgeous one or just lost that suggests it's got a lot of liberals and conservatives, or maybe a lot of moderates
Michael Franz: Those are the districts where the difference between the two congressional candidates is
Michael Franz: Smallest now it's still pretty large the prediction here that prediction here for different types of candidates is still pretty big relative to zero.
Michael Franz: And so, you know, and we do see some cases where there is very little difference between the candidates, but lots of cases, even in balanced districts where the difference between the candidates is is still pretty large but its smallest nonetheless.
Michael Franz: Generally in places where the district is balanced and so I would argue that that's some evidence for point one on the downs. The model.
Michael Franz: And so just so far and figures, one, two, and three. We do find very limited evidence of point one on the down z and model Figure two is actually no evidence of that figure three gives us a bit of evidence that there's some convergence to the electoral center.
Michael Franz: Point one has sort of really sort of week evidence, if any, and so far we've seen that in figure two, we do see some evidence that candidates respond to the preferences of voters.
Michael Franz: But there's also a lot of variation in these figures and a lot of difference between the Ds and the ours in these districts. And so this is not really great evidence for
Michael Franz: The Dancing and model. So far so far.
Michael Franz: Then they look at the results in table three. And I'll just tell you what the results and table three are
Michael Franz: Which is the measure the difference between the two candidates, which they call the cut point which is really the sort of the gap between the two candidates and what's the middle point of that. And so I've
Michael Franz: Looked at this down here. Imagine a democrat is point one and the Republican is point seven the midpoint of that is point for
Michael Franz: Now imagine the Republican is in the same exact theological position, but the Democrat move slightly to do right
Michael Franz: Now, the Democrat is point two, and the republicans point seven the midpoint is point four or five. So the midpoint has shifted to the right.
Michael Franz: And so when the Democrat shifts to the right, it pushes the midpoint, right, assuming that the Republican stays the same.
Michael Franz: The results in table three tells us that generally this translates
Michael Franz: Into votes. This translates into votes. So as the cut point moves right. In other words, who candidates become more conservative not conservative but more conservative democrats do well.
Michael Franz: Better as the cut point moves left the candidates become more liberal not liberal, but a little more liberal the GOP games and so democrats do better.
Michael Franz: All else equal, when they sort of moderate lose sight of the right democrats do better as a moderate and move slightly to the left.
Michael Franz: This is point three on the downs, the candidates do gain electorally from some moderation and their issue position. So comparing all these districts that's generally what we find.
Michael Franz: These effects are not massive they're not large. The authors say that they're, you know, they're pretty decently sized relative to other effects.
Michael Franz: But they are statistically significant. And so this is some evidence of point three that candidates generally do better when they're slightly more moderate than when they're more extreme
Michael Franz: Okay. So, so far, what is that generally me. Well, what that generally means is that downes's model is partly right. There's some evidence of endpoints, two, and three, though not overwhelmingly
Michael Franz: And not generally at all on point one a little bit of evidence given figure three but not a ton of evidence.
Michael Franz: For any of these points in general real, the real point here is that there's lots of distinctiveness between Democrats and Republicans running against each other.
Michael Franz: Which might seem obvious today, in a world of extreme polarization. But when downs was reading in 1957 and using a very simple spatial model was making a very compelling prediction.
Michael Franz: That if the clump of voters are here, why not go there, when you're running for office because that's what the voters.
Michael Franz: Are and instead we're seeing candidates running for the support of those voters in from different positions relative to the middle of the district.
Michael Franz: So that's a set of interesting results that comes out of 1996 just checking the time
Michael Franz: Now we can look at some of their historical analysis here, they look at 1874 to 1996
Michael Franz: Now I'm going to show you one figure from this analysis because there's a lot in here. And I think this figure six is really the powerful payoff for us in historical case.
Michael Franz: But a couple of big things that they tell us figure for is a replication of what they did in figure to which is looking at the the winning challengers and losing incumbents and the ideological positions of those two and you'll see figure for looks and feels a lot like
Michael Franz: Figure two and that you'll see republicans always more conservative
Michael Franz: Than democrats and that's for all of the winning challengers against losing incumbent matchups between 1874 1996 120 years of data that shows us the same thing that they found in 1996
Michael Franz: Democrats are always more liberal than Republicans in these matchups there's very little convergence to the electrical center.
Michael Franz: Further evidence for the weakness of point one on the downs model in table for skipping to the bottom here, they have found that the cut point does predict votes.
Michael Franz: In more recent decades, and those are 90s compared to 70s AND 60s recent decades for us now be your the 2000s, but this was being written and and analyzed in in the late 90s.
Michael Franz: And in that analysis. They found that as the cut point moved in other words as candidates became more moderate
Michael Franz: They tended to do better. But that was a recent effect, not something that's been consistently true and so they find a limited some limited evidence for point three on the downs in model in historical analysis.
Michael Franz: And then what I find really really fascinating is
Michael Franz: The analysis and figure six and so here we've might think of what is the effective district conservative ism.
Michael Franz: On the large etiology of the candidate and way to think about this would be to go to back to figure one. So what is essentially the slope here of the line.
Michael Franz: Between district conservative ism on Canada issue positions, what is the slope of the line in all of the years that they have data. And if it's always the case that Democrats respond to the ideological preferences of the district, then we should always see a slope that's positive.
Michael Franz: And, you know, in the sense that Democrats are more conservative in
Michael Franz: Conservative districts and Republicans are always more conservative and conservative districts and are more liberal and liberal districts. Right.
Michael Franz: These, these lines here are not, you know, super steep but they are positive. And so we shouldn't see consistent positive slopes over time.
Michael Franz: So what they do in this analysis is they look at all the election years. And essentially what they do.
Michael Franz: Is they plot the slope value, the slope of the line how steep. The line is in each of the years and so the y axis here is really the sort of
Michael Franz: slope of the line in 1880 the slope of the line and 1922 and what I showed you in Figure one is the slope of the line for Democrats and Republicans in 1996
Michael Franz: So we're getting all the scatters around the line. What is the effect the estimated effect of the simple by buried effect of district conservative ism on candidate conservative ism.
Michael Franz: And what you find here super fascinating. And it's that between 1874 and roughly into the 50s and 60s.
Michael Franz: The effect was essentially zero. There wasn't much responsiveness candidates democrats didn't run as more conservative and more conservative districts and Republicans didn't run as more liberal and more liberal districts for that period of time.
Michael Franz: They tended to be conservative or be liberal depending on which party. We're talking about
Michael Franz: out of step with the preference of the district, if you will. And so candidates have always been faced with two distinct choices for long periods of time.
Michael Franz: However responsiveness increased in the 60s and 70s and started to decrease in the 80s and 90s and what I think is just so
Michael Franz: awesome about this finding is it matches. A lot of what we read about in Jacobson and Carson relative to the incumbency advantage.
Michael Franz: The incumbency advantage goes up in the 60s, 70s and 80s, as the party's become sort of a little weaker and a little less prevalent in national politics.
Michael Franz: And as we move into a very heavily candidate centered political environment. Well, as we were in a candidate centered political environment.
Michael Franz: Candidates tend to respond more to the local interests of the district. And so we see responsiveness go up in the years we're candidate center politics takes root
Michael Franz: Where the incumbency effect goes up with a decline of parties after the Progressive Era all the sorts of different things that sides talks about in the textbook and chapter two.
Michael Franz: And that we saw in the Jacobson and Carson reading for this week about the decline of parties in the 60s and 70s and the rise of incumbency effects.
Michael Franz: In those years candidates were getting safer as incumbents. And they were also very free to try to run the campaigns. They wanted to run to respond to the district.
Michael Franz: And to be the kind of liberal or conservative that they wanted to be in order to stay elected.
Michael Franz: However, we see those things that affect decline pretty strongly amongst republicans
Michael Franz: A little less sort of quickly but still strongly amongst democrats such that by the time you hit the end of their analysis.
Michael Franz: The responsiveness of those candidates has stopped. In a way, they're less responsive to the district preferences and we start to see them.
Michael Franz: reflect more than national political party positions.
Michael Franz: You don't see many conservative Democrats running, you don't see many liberal Republicans running. And this fits with what we know about politics today.
Michael Franz: And polarization in the sense that we know the candidates are running more extreme voters and so we're not seeing too many instances of very conservative Democrats and very liberal Republicans, and that's what we're seeing evidence of here starting pretty quickly after
Michael Franz: We see this brief period of of extreme responsiveness.
Michael Franz: This is probably a reflection of all of our polarization and the, the role of parties and pulling candidates farther left and further to the right, such that what we have today is very distinct choices in our elections.
Michael Franz: And so I asked you to think about that relative to your races. This is not deterministic, this isn't true for every race, this isn't true in every year.
Michael Franz: You will be tracking candidates that are trying to reflect the interests of the district and you'll see conservative Democrats running and you will see some liberal Republicans running so that happens, it will always happen but on average, looking at politics today.
Michael Franz: And comparing it historically, I would argue that the trends that they're finding in this paper are likely still true in that the responsiveness at the district level is probably flatlined out here, similar to where we were.
Michael Franz: In the early part of the 20th century that we might guess, and when they try to explain will stay say that the result is likely because of the poll
Michael Franz: Of the national parties, the power of the party positions in encouraging candidates that reflect the national parties to run for office and to not necessarily
Michael Franz: Lead candidates do their own thing. In order to get elected across the country. And so that's, I think, an extremely interesting finding
Michael Franz: And I want to talk more about the implications of that and the implications of the analysis that they have at the end of this
Michael Franz: The conclusions that they draw at the end of this article. And so if you have questions about any of the analysis in this paper, bring them up in the discussion section. And I think it will be
Michael Franz: A really powerful and interesting way to think about the races that you're tracking relative to all this history that we laid out, and at the author's layout in this paper.
Michael Franz: So that's it for now. Thanks for listening and I hope you have a Hope all is going well and and I look forward to the conversation about this paper. Take care everybody